Decrypt Secret Messages

You are a spy embedded in Evil Corp, an organization determined to carry out nefarious deeds. You’ve intercepted a series of letters. If you can figure out what the messages say, maybe you can stop whatever their secret plan is in time!

This project will require you to use some simple terminal commands to decrypt and translate the messages.
Tasks
7/7 complete
Mark the tasks as complete by checking them off
Using the Terminal and Reading Files

1.

You’re in! Let’s take a look at what’s in this folder open in the terminal right now. It’s supposed to have the letters you intercepted.

In order to see a list of files in your current directory, use the ls command. This is short for “list”, and is the letter “l” and letter “s”.



Type:



$ ls

and press the Enter or return keyboard key. You can use this command whenever you want to see the files in the current directory.
2.

All right, it looks like we have a bunch of letters!

Examine each letter in the order that they’re numbered. Are they readable?

In order to output a file’s content in the terminal, type cat followed by the name of the file you want to read, and then press the Enter or return key.



To read letter 1, you would type:

$ cat letter_1.txt

and press the Enter or return key.



To clear the screen to make more room, use:

$ clear

When you have examined letters 1-3 stored in .txt files, move to the next step.

Decryption

3.

It seems like letter 1 contains a clue that we can use to read letter 2. Something about base64, which is a type of encoding that transforms text into a form that is easier for computers to read and store.

We might not actually need to decipher letter 2 with a key. Let’s try the built-in base64 command.

$ base64 -d letter_2.txt

(The -d stands for decode, by the way.)

Did it do the trick?


4.

Excellent work on Letter 2! Letter 3 wasn’t readable at first, but now we know that we need to decrypt it using the Caesar Cipher with a key of 15.

In order to decrypt the Caesar Cipher in letter 3, you will need to use the tr command. tr “rotates” each letter by a certain amount. For example:

$ tr "K-ZA-Jk-za-j" "A-Za-z" 

will rotate each letter 10 spots backwards, because K is 10 letters away from A, and j indicates that it’s rotated backwards. The other parts of the command mean to apply it to all uppercase and lowercase letters from a to z.

To decrypt with a key of 11 would be:

$ tr "L-ZA-Kl-za-k" "A-Za-z

We also need to use the cat command to read the file content first, followed by the | key, so the complete command to decrypt a Caesar Cipher in a file with a key of 10 would be:

$ cat letter_3.txt | tr "K-ZA-Jk-za-j" "A-Za-z"

Try to come up with the correct command for a key of 15. If you need help, take a look at the hint!



5.

All right! After decrypting the Caesar cipher in letter 3, we have the password to the letter 4 zip file! Let’s go ahead and see what’s inside.

Zip files not only compress large files but are also a form of encryption that allows you to put a password on sensitive files.

In order to unzip this file, type unzip followed by the file name:

$ unzip letter_4.zip

and then press the Enter or return key. When you are prompted, enter the password you got from Letter 3. Note that you will not see the password being typed, but if you type in the right password and press the Enter or return key, the file should unzip.

After it’s unzipped, use cat to take a look at the newly available letter_4.txt.

Can you read it now?



6.

Excellent work, we are almost there! Reading letter 4 gave us another password we can use to unzip letter 5!

Repeat the unzip and password-entering process for letter 5.

You’ll see what happened after the password is accepted is that letter_5 is in fact a folder with two files inside!

To see the contents inside, you can use the command:

$ ls letter_5

To read the letter_5.txt, you need to specify that it’s inside the folder letter_5. Run this command:

$ cat letter_5/letter_5.txt

Once you’ve read it, take down this password and move onto the next step!



7.

We got yet another password from reading letter 5. There’s also another file called disable_the_lasers.sh in the letter_5 folder.

.sh is a file extension for scripts that run in the terminal. We can run it like this:

$ ./letter_5/disable_the_lasers.sh

and enter the password.

Once you’ve done this… Congratulations! You have saved Kitten-topia! Who would have thought the password to the laser was such a weak password? Looks like Evil Corp. is in need of a good cybersecurity consultant.

Terminal
